§1011.1 General.
The purpose of this subpart A is to elaborate on the revocation rights in 15 U.S.C. 1703, by enumerating certain conditions under which purchasers may exercise revocation rights. Generally, whenever revocation rights are available, they apply to promissory notes, as well as traditional agreements.
§1011.2 Revocation regardless of registration.
All purchasers have the option to revoke a contract or lease with regard to a lot not exempt under §§1010.5 through 1010.11 and 1010.14 until midnight of the seventh day after the day that the purchaser signs a contract or lease. If a purchaser is entitled to a longer revocation period under state law, that period is deemed the Federal revocation period rather than the 7 days, and all contracts and agreements (including promissory notes) shall so state.
§1011.4 Contract requirements and revocation.
(a) In accordance with 15 U.S.C. 1703(d)(3), the refund to the purchaser is calculated by subtracting from the amount described in 15 U.S.C. 1703(d)(3)(B), the greater of:
(1) Fifteen percent of the purchase or lease price of the lot (excluding interest owed) at the time of the default or breach of contract or agreement; or
(2) The amount of damages incurred by the seller or lessor due to the default or breach of contract.
(b) For the purposes of this section:
Damages incurred by the seller or lessor means actual damages resulting from the default or breach, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction governing the contract. However, no damages may be specified in the contract or agreement, except a liquidated damages clause not exceeding 15 percent of the purchase price of the lot, excluding any interest owed.
Purchase price means the cash sales price of the lot shown on the contract.
(c) The contractual requirements of 15 U.S.C. 1703(d) do not apply to the sale of a lot for which, within 180 days after the signing of the sales contract, the purchaser receives a warranty deed or, where warranty deeds are not commonly used, its equivalent under state law.
§1011.5 Reimbursement.
If a purchaser exercises rights under 15 U.S.C. 1703(b), (c), or (d), but cannot reconvey the lot in substantially similar condition, the developer may subtract from the amount paid by the purchaser, and otherwise due to the purchaser under 15 U.S.C. 1703, any diminished value in the lot caused by the acts of the purchaser.
§1011.10 General.
Sales practices means any conduct or advertising by a developer or its agents to induce a person to buy or lease a lot. This subpart describes certain unlawful sales practices and provides standards to illustrate what other sales practices are considered misleading in light of certain circumstances in which they are made and within the context of the overall offer and sale or lease.
§1011.15 Unlawful sales practices-statutory provisions.
The statutory prohibitions against fraudulent or misleading sales practices are set forth at 15 U.S.C. 1703(a). With respect to the prohibitions against representing that certain facilities will be provided or completed unless there is a contractual obligation to do so by the developer:
(a) The contractual covenant to provide or complete the services or amenities may be conditioned only upon grounds that are legally sufficient to establish impossibility of performance in the jurisdiction where the services or amenities are being provided or completed;
(b) Contingencies such as acts of God, strikes, or material shortages are recognized as permissible to defer completion of services or amenities; and
(c) In creating these contractual obligations developers have the option of incorporating by reference the Property Report in effect at the time of the sale or lease. If a developer chooses to incorporate the Property Report by reference, the effective date of the Property Report being included by reference must be specified in the contract of sale or lease.
